In the Cloud, customers pay for actions,
acquisitions, data transfer, and managed services.
They pay for pretty much everything other than the initial data upload that's free.
Keep in mind that you don't really own anything in the public Cloud.
You are essentially paying to use the services and the provider
agrees to supply and support them similar to a lease agreement.
You can view AWS as a platform of almost 200 managed services.
Some of the costs of the technology management
are built into the fees you pay for these services.
So if you're paying $1.50 an hour to run an EC2 instance,
part of that charge is for the management of the instance.
That is, AWS and their technology teams securing,
updating, and maintaining the server on your behalf.
This is another reason it isn't realistic to compare Cloud to physical.
One terabyte of data may cost more in the Cloud,
but it may be worth it to pay more when you don't have to secure it,
maintain it, back it up,
or provide the 11 9s guarantee.
The AWS 11 9s guarantee is a representation of AWS S3's durability.
Durability is used to measure the likelihood of data loss.
So an AWS says that they guarantee 11 9s of durability,
they are saying that 99.999999999
percent chance that your files will remain available in S3.
In other words, if you gave AWS one million files to store, statistically,
they would lose one file every 659,000 years,
or if you store 100 billion files in S3,
AWS might lose one.
I say might because S3 durability increases when
you spread your objects across regions and availability zones.
Establishing controls around provisioning
Cloud resources is the key to preventing a billing disaster.
Imagine how unmanageable and disorganized an AWS environment would
be if all users could spin up instances, create databases,
backup drives to S3,
and run applications on servers with more power than they need just because they can,
essentially a technology spending free for all.
How can you get in front of this situation?
Establish a naming convention for servers and databases,
use tags to associate resources with cost centers,
establish IT governance rules and make sure everyone follows them,
setup user roles and control so only
certain roles are allowed to provision infrastructure,
and use billing alarms to notify
the admin tier when the bill has reached or exceeded a certain threshold.
Establishing and enforcing rules and guidelines for procuring
Cloud resources when you first establish your account prevents overspend,
rogue infrastructure, and rework.
Cost allocation tags help you keep track of which group,
lifecycle, person, or application a cost belongs to.
It is much easier to keep track of AWS costs
when you can balance out your monthly bill by cost allocation tag.
You'll know which costs are production, which are test,
which costs belong to your pro bono city government project,
and which cost belong in the experimental bucket.
It's a practical organizational task and should be
standard protocol for every new Cloud implementation.